So with every Gatsby project because Gatsby rules with graph Q all by default as its query language
you're able to actually access a graph q a playground by going to local host eight thousand underscore
underscore underscore graph Q Well this will load up this playground that shows us all of the queries
we're able to make inside of graph.
Well now this is really good because we're actually able to do a lot of different things with this graph
cool query list for example by default we're actually able to access every single file inside of our
directory.
Now when I say this what do I mean.
So if you look inside of your Gatsby config you'll see that there's this plug in here called Gatsby
source file system.
Now Gatsby source file system is a way for you to actually access the nodes that represent the files
inside of this directory with the name and the path the name just essentially allows us to tell Gatsby
what it is that we want to put this under when we query for it.
Now what are we creating for is actually going to be any files that lives inside this path that we provide
it.
So here we see that where string interpreting this directory name which pretty much just represents
whatever the final directory structure is and I want to go into our source folder and then our images
folder.
So right here now it's named images because what it's trying to do is get all of the image files.
Now if we go back to our graph you all will see that what it is that we got is actually this thing called
all file now inside of this explorer you'll see this list of all the different queries that we can access.
So if we wanted to actually see what that plugin was giving us if I do all file and I hit command enter
or control enter if you're on a Windows you'll see that automatically populates with these properties
of edges node and then the I.D. Now edges represent the actual path to that file that we're pointing
to.
So meaning that edges will be the array of the number of files that we have inside of our images folder.
Now inside of every edge will be a node and that node is the representation of what that file is.
Now the node Gatsby will convert for us.
But what that means is that if we look inside of this list we'll be able to see what properties were
actually able to pluck off and look at.
So if we do absolute path and if we do relative path as well if we hit enter again we'll see that we're
pointing to each of our image files and now by using this query we're actually able to get all of the
files that we want inside of our project.
So if we wanted to for example store different data inside of these files in order to actually represent
our blogs we're able to do so using this all file query.
Now we're definitely going to explore that because this is really how it is that we're going to build
out our blocks.
There is a couple of things that we have to make sure that we do first though one thing is that while
we're able to see a representation of our files we cannot actually get the data in those files yet in
order to do so we have to make some modifications to Gatsby and what we're going to write is going to
be a little bit different than anything else you've probably ever written before.
Now what we want to do is we want to start actually building our blocks there's a couple things that
we have to do in order to set this up.
The first is that we have to write the files that will hold the data of our blocks to begin with.
So these could just be individual blog posts with some text on them.
Now the way that we can actually build out the blog content and get access to all of the styling is
to use something called Markdown.
Now if you're unfamiliar with markdown markdown is what is used to build many of the read means that
you see inside of GetUp.
So you'll see that we have access to these different titles.
We got access to the static linking we can put all of these images inside and we also get access to
these code blocks inside of markdown.
So markdown is a pretty consistently structured and very supported style of writing text that Gatsby
also allows us to use.
So if we wanted to write our blogs and get styling you really just need to learn a little bit of markdown.
And I will give you a markdown cheat sheet that tells you all of the different styles you can apply
in markdown when you start writing your blogs.
But I have some pre written.
So what we're going to do is we are going to make a new folder that is going to hold all of our markdown
files that represent the blogs we're about to make.
So go back to your application and what you're going to do is make a new file inside of your source
or sorry a new folder and we're gonna call it markdown pages inside of markdown pages is going to be
each markdown file that represents each blog post you're gonna write.
So I'm going to make a new one and I'm going to call it ice cream and I'm gonna kind of ice cream dot
M.D. now dot M.D. stands for markdown now inside of this I'm just going to paste my markdown code that
represents the first blog that I'm writing and I am also going to give you this resource as well just
so that you can walk through with me before you actually make your own markdown files.
Now you'll notice at the top here there are these three dashes these three dashes represent what's called
the front matter and the front matter is just kind of like some data that you can pull off of this markdown
file and have it represent perhaps some data that you want to display inside of a snippet rather than
the entire contents of the actual blog itself.
This can also hold any metadata so you can just see the front matter as metadata and we're going to
explore how to actually use it inside of our graph who all queries.
So other than this one I actually also have a nother markdown file that I want to make and I want to
call it my first AMH M.D..
And similarly I have the other file here for you and here you'll see that I'm embedding an i frame.
Now this I frame points to a YouTube link of the first AMA that I did a couple weeks ago.
But this thing is actually going to be what you get from YouTube as an embed link so you can put this
inside of markdown as well because markdown ends up being compelled to HDMI out and that's another great
thing about using markdown is that using these two markdown files we're now able to represent our blogs
very dynamically because if we wanted to write new blogs we simply just add new markdown files that
represent our blogs.
And then after we write the remaining code that will dynamically build out our blog posts we'll be pretty
set in terms of our blog Web site.
Now the one thing that we do have to do is we have to make sure that we're actually able to access these
markdown files because as you remember inside of our config right now all we're doing with this file
system is simply accessing images if we wanted access to markdown.
We can just duplicate this block of code here.
So copy paste it down except I'm going to change this name over to markdowns and instead of the path
pointed to images I'm going to point to our new markdown pages path so let's save this.
And what you have to do is you actually have to restart your server whenever you change any plugins
inside of your config.
So while we get hot reloading with a lot of the metadata or into the files that we change inside of
our general structure we do not get it with our config plugins.
If you change the plugin just restart your server and once it's finished building we're gonna go back
to our graph queue all and we're going to take a look at what it is that we get so if we refresh now
and we enter we still see our original image files but now we see that we also have our markdown files.
So now that we're able to access the node representation of these markdown files let's actually figure
out how to pull the data out of them in order to dynamically build out the pages that we need inside
of our application to represent these blog posts.
And that's all we're gonna do in the next lesson.
So I'll see you in that lesson.